---
title: "Supporting OKNIA.org and King Estate Open Space (KEOS)"
date: 2024-07-08T11:01:59-07:00
featured_image: "/images/keos7.jpg"
draft: false
---
OKNIA.org is a community based 501 (C3) nonprofit formed to enhance the livability of the neighborhoods surrounding KEOS.  We do this by establishing and maintaining an open line of communication and liaison among the neighbors, government agencies and other neighborhoods.

 Because of ongoing City budget constraints and competing priorities, OKNIA.org directs a lot of time and attention toward maintaining our local open space.

## Here is what OKNIA has accomplished since July 2023:

* OKNIA volunteers constructed entrance bulletin boards and incised KEOS signage (funded by a grant from Keep Oakland Beautiful) in order to facilitate better communication with park users and to indicate that the open space is not just a vacant lot. 

* In association with A-Plus Tree LLC and grant money from CalFire, we planted 25 native oak trees (4 species) near the 82nd Avenue entrance to the Open Space to partially replace invasive acacia trees that were removed by the City after a winter blow down.  To keep the goats from eating the new trees, we erected wire exclusion fences around each, which will stay in place until the trees are large enough to withstand the intense grazing pressure some years from now.

* Trail maintenance and improvement:

  * We installed several low retaining walls to shore up a steep slope along sections of the Western Trail.

  *  We dug trenches along lower Greenly Trail to help ground water drainage during rainy season.  

* We're currently working on installation of low cost, solar powered motion detector LED lighting along the chain link fence bordering 82nd Avenue to discourage after dark activities and illegal dumping.

* Biodiversity loss is a global problem.  In our preserved Open Space, volunteers spend many hours removing particularly aggressive invasive species.  The goats don't solve the problem. A number of particularly aggressive invasive species need ongoing control efforts to keep them from overwhelming the ecosystem.  Among them are: Himalayan blackberry, Mustard, Italian thistle, and Fumaria.

▪ In addition, OKNIA.org organized and sponsored the September 2022 City Council District 6 candidate forum held at United Luthern Church 8800 Fontaine Street. 

### Please help out with a yearly membership of $15.00 per adult.

We appreciate you for support. See [www.oknia.org Membership](https://oknia.org/membership/) for electronic donations and member ship fees.

No goods or services are provided in exchange for this contribution. The Oak Knoll Neighborhood Improvement Association is an exempt organization as described in Section (501(c)3) of the Internal Revenue Code whose EIN is 82-4928255.

We would love any feedback you may have. Please send them our way at [info@oknia.org](mailto:info@oknia.org). The chair of the Board as well as the Secretary will receive messages sent to this address.

 

## Thank you for your support.  Volunteers are always appreciated.

-OKNIA Board of Directors